>>[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
I'm George Noory.
1947, in a cave in Palestine,
which is now Israel,
a discovery of the
Dead Sea Scrolls,
a discovery that has
changed the face of mankind.
Our special guest,
Dr. Ken Hanson.
>>For most of the
last 2,000 years,
the apocalyptic Dead
Sea Scrolls were lost.
And even when they were
found, they were available
only to scholars.
One man has made it
his mission to breathe
new life into the scrolls,
focusing on the value of one
in particular-- the
War Scroll Ken Hanson,
and author of "Dead Sea
Scrolls-- The Untold Story,"
teaches Judaic studies at the
University of Central Florida.
He believes the scrolls
are a treasure which can
provide insights into humanity.
He explains how the War Scroll
anticipated modern conflict
in the Middle East and how,
if we heed it, can offer help.
Today on Beyond Belief.
>>NOORY: And welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
Dr. Ken Hanson.
Ken, thanks for being our guest.
I appreciate it.
>>KEN HANSON: It's
a great pleasure.
>>NOORY: You know what?
We have talked for years on the
"Coast to Coast" radio show.
>>HANSON: That's right.
>>NOORY: But to be able
to meet you in person
and see these incredible
artifacts is absolutely
riveting.
It really is exciting.
>>HANSON: Isn't it
great to have the chance
to actually show
and not just tell?
That's what the
artifacts can bring us,
is a chance to peer into
this ancient time and culture
and civilization.
>>NOORY: Let's go back to 1947.
Who discovered the Dead Sea
Scrolls in these jars, right?
>>HANSON: Right.
Like so many great discoveries,
it happened all by accident
when a young
Bedouin shepherd boy
named Muhammed edh-Dhib
was looking for a lost
goat on the western shore
of the Dead Sea-- the lowest
spot on the face of
the Earth, by the way.
And he couldn't find his goat.
He's rummaging around through
a series of lonely desert
caves perched high
above the Dead Sea
in the chalky marl cliffs.
He throws a stone
into one of them,
hoping that if his
goat has gone astray,
he'll frighten the
animal out into the open.
And instead what he hears is
the sound of something cracking,
breaking, like cracking pottery.
It's amazing to him.
He hauls his frail torso
halfway up the side of the cliff
and squeezes through the very
narrow cave entrance and peers
into the darkness.
And there, leaning along
this darkened inner recess
of the cave, he sees a series
of earthenware pottery jars.
His stone has
struck one of them.
That was the sound
that he heard.
He summons his courage and
starts rifling through them
and finds a big, oddly-wrapped
bundle of something.
He doesn't know what it is.
He hauls it out of the cave.
He's worried about desert
ghosts and goblins,
hightails it back to
his desert campsite,
and pulls away the
flaxen covering
to be confronted by a
series of parchments.
Of course, his native
tongue is Arabic.
And he does not understand the
Hebrew on these parchments.
He doesn't know what they are.
He shows his friends.
They just roll up
their curiosities again
and stuff them into a series
of big old leather bags
and hang them from tent poles.
>>NOORY: And he
took all the jars.
All of them?
>>HANSON: He took
some of them, and he
took the contents, the major
contents of one of the jars,
in particular.
Most of the jars were empty.
He took the contents,
and he had no idea.
Eventually, they saw
the light of day.
The Bedouin wandered around
through the wilderness of Judea
for weeks, carrying the scrolls
dangling from a tent pole.
And eventually, they found
their way to Bethlehem,
to a shopkeeper, an
Arab shopkeeper-- Arab
Christian-- who bought a
few of them on the spot.
And then the shopkeeper
makes his own expedition back
to those caves and
finds even more.
And so you end up
with a whole treasure
trove of assorted parchments.
Here's a facsimile of what one
of them might have looked like.
>>NOORY: Were these
written, Ken, by one person?
Or by a series of people?
>>HANSON: Oh, by a
whole series of people.
One of them might,
in fact, have been
the founder of the
ancient sect itself known
as the Teacher of Righteousness.
That's the only name
he's ever given,
the Teacher of Righteousness.
He's sort of a
mysterious-- I liken him
to Obi-Wan Kenobi
2,000 years ago.
>>NOORY: Could that
have been Jesus?
>>HANSON: Well, some have
tried to make that argument,
have tried to make
the connection,
although bear in mind
most of these parchments,
by carbon-14 dating as well as
the handwriting analysis, date
to the first two centuries
BC, well before Jesus.
So I see them then
as a pre-Jesus sect.
>>NOORY: All right.
If these were written
before the birth of Jesus,
what did the scrolls say?
What were they all about?
>>HANSON: Well, for
one thing, we've
got copies of at
least portions of each
and every book of
the Hebrew Bible,
the Old Testament, including
the books of Moses.
But then we have
scores and scores
of additional texts,
entire books that we never
even knew existed.
And yet all of them date
from this seminal period
of the days of Jesus and
John the Baptist and King
Herod the Great and the
Romans-- rule books, manuals.
One is called the
Manual of Discipline,
what you would have to do
to join this ancient sect.
If you want to become
a member of the sect--
we call them the Essenes.
That's the most likely
designation of who they were.
If you wanted to become
an Essene yourself,
what do you have to do?
What are the hoops you
have to jump through?
An extensive three-year
probation period--
>>NOORY: I heard
Jesus was an Essene.
>>HANSON: And some have
tried to argue that.
I think, more likely, John
the Baptist was an Essene.
>>NOORY: All right.
Let's take a look at a
video to give all of us
a little glance at the Essene.
>>Like earlier messianic rebels
who got in the way of Rome,
the Essenes met a violent end.
Josephus tells that they
were tortured in order,
he wrote, to induce them
to blaspheme or to eat
some forbidden thing.
But they refused to yield,
nor ever once did they
cringe or shed a tear.
Cheerfully, they
resigned their souls,
confident that they would
receive them back again.
>>NOORY: Ken, though that may
have been an exciting time
period, it may have also
been a very treacherous time
period, especially if
you were an Essene.
>>HANSON: Especially.
But the whole land of Israel
was in turmoil in those days,
and that means throughout
the days of Jesus and John
the Baptist.
I think, as I mentioned, John
the Baptist, the baptizer,
might have been a
member of this sect,
just based on the type of
preaching that he did-- talking
about fire, about judgment,
about an apocalyptic end
of the age, the
end of all things.
That's very much in line
with the kind of material
we read in these
ancient scrolls,
especially, as we're
talking about today, the War
Scroll, which seems to
predict, to portend,
a series of seven great end-time
apocalyptic battles, wars.
>>NOORY: Does it echo
the Book of Revelation?
>>HANSON: Very much, except
it's written, I'd say,
at least a century before
the Book of Revelation
and yet sounds
hauntingly similar.
The difference, of course,
is the Book of Revelation
came down to us in Greek.
It's as though we have
a Hebrew antecedent
of the Book of
Revelation, very much
on the same page
in many, many ways.
The apocalypse is imminent.
Doom, catastrophe
of some kind-- they
knew not what-- is
right around the corner.
And history bore them out.
>>NOORY: When do you think
the Dead Sea Scrolls were
put in these clay pots and
then hidden away in this cave?
>>HANSON: Everything
is a controversy
when it comes to this research.
My take is that thanks
to their War Scroll,
thanks to their own prophesies
of the soon-coming destruction
to fall upon the land
of Israel, they decided,
we had better hide these.
We had better hide them, and
quick because the Romans--
>>NOORY: Or they'd be destroyed.
>>HANSON: Everything,
everyone will be destroyed.
The Romans are coming.
A great revolt against
the Roman Empire
broke out in the land of
Israel in the year 66 AD.
It went on for four
horrible years until 70 AD.
Josephus, the ancient
historian, tells us
that over one million Israelites
perished in that revolt.
That's Holocaust proportions.
>>NOORY: That is.
>>HANSON: Unbelievable.
>>NOORY: Bigger because of
the population at the time.
>>HANSON: Exactly, exactly.
And they had an
uncanny awareness.
God knows how, but they had
a sense that this is coming.
And the dating of the
scrolls prove it, in fact.
Will beforehand, they knew
what was coming down the pike.
And they took their
parchments, and they hid them
in a series of jars.
Some they just rolled out
flat, one on top of another,
in the bottom one
of these caves,
and then covered it
over with sand and dirt.
>>NOORY: To preserve
them and protect them.
>>HANSON: And left it there
for 2,000 years, thinking,
we'll come back.
They did something else
very, very interesting.
Either the Essenes
or someone like them
decided it is time to
hide our treasures.
And this may have included the
treasures of the sacred temple
in Jerusalem itself.
The temple, Herod's temple,
was the most wealthy, opulent
building, perhaps, in the world.
>>NOORY: Is this the Temple
Mount were talking about?
>>HANSON: The Temple Mount
today, which is how all of this
really dovetails into
modern geopolitics.
>>NOORY: It really does.
It never changed.
>>HANSON: This is the bullseye
of history, I like to call it,
even as we speak.
That Temple Mount held the
most lavish structure, really,
known to the world.
Nothing has been seen like it.
The same historian,
Josephus, said,
he who has not seen
the temple in Jerusalem
has not seen a truly
beautiful building.
>>NOORY: Do the scrolls--
and they haven't interpreted
all of them, have they not?
They've got them all.
>>HANSON: They've got them all.
>>NOORY: But they haven't
deciphered them all.
Is that correct?
>>HANSON: Well,
we have databases,
in fact, of these scrolls,
including tens of thousands
of tiny little pieces
of parchment fragment
that were later
discovered by the Bedouin
as part of this Judean desert
scroll rush that came in.
It's the world's
biggest jigsaw puzzle.
And we have them all now.
For nearly 40 years, they were
all sequestered, we should add.
And that was really
a tragic development
because only a select handful
of scholars in the whole world
had access.
And a lot of controversy raged.
But they have come out.
They have come out.
And we have them.
As I say, there are databases.
I have one.
But that doesn't mean
we understand them all.
That doesn't mean we're still
able to piece them all together
exactly in the right order.
This is a very
scientific process,
to piece together
the jigsaw puzzle,
and then to make sense of it.
We were talking about this
temple and its treasure.
Somebody decided
that they would make
an inventory of this treasure,
hide this treasure somewhere
out in the wilderness
of Judea for safekeeping
because they really believed
that the end of things
was at hand.
The Romans-- or the war scroll
just calls them the Kittim.
It's a specialized term.
And we believe they
were the Romans.
The Kittim are coming,
whoever they are.
And they pounded the
contents of this treasure
into sheets of very pure,
highly-refined copper.
And then riveted one sheet
of copper into the next
into the next.
This is a facsimile of
what the famous Copper
Scroll would have looked like.
>>NOORY: Amazing.
They etched onto the copper.
>>HANSON: They
pounded, literally,
the Hebrew letters into the
copper-- very hurriedly,
it looks like-- and pounded
one sheet into another.
It was a high grade of
copper, malleable, capable
of being rolled into a scroll.
>>NOORY: Why was it so important
to put these messages down
on copper?
>>HANSON: So that it
would be preserved,
even if some terrible
thing happens
to our other parchments,
which are basically just--
they're vellum.
They're parchment material.
They're the skin
of kosher animals.
>>NOORY: It's like
our software backups.
Right?
It's the cloud.
>>HANSON: Bingo.
It's a copper cloud.
And this is likely to
survive, whatever happens.
We've got to be able to go
back and get our treasure, more
than 200 tons of gold and silver
and consecrated artifacts,
from the sacred temple,
along with precise locations
where they were buried
in the city of Jerusalem.
>>NOORY: Have we found them yet?
>>HANSON: And the
wilderness of Judea.
Well when the archaeologists
first uncovered this Copper
Scroll-- and happened
in the 1950s,
mind you, because as part of
this scroll rush, I call it,
everyone is going
back to these caves.
What else is out there?
>>NOORY: Looking for things.
>>HANSON: Looking for things.
One cave entrance had actually
collapsed in antiquity,
sealing its contents
also from the outside.
>>NOORY: Did they get into it?
>>HANSON: And the
archeologists--
not the Bedouin, the
archeologists-- found this one.
Then they dug through that
collapsed cave entrance,
and they found in two
pieces the Copper Scroll.
>>NOORY: What a discovery.
>>HANSON: And proceeded
first to try to unroll it.
And the copper, of
course, had oxidized.
They couldn't unroll it.
>>NOORY: And this is a replica.
>>HANSON: This is
a replica, yes.
And in the end, they
resorted to sawing it
into little arcs, which they
laid one next to another next
to another until they finally
got the whole thing laid
out and in the open.
They inadvertently sawed
through some of the letters.
>>NOORY: Oh, no!
>>HANSON: Because
they couldn't tell.
But it was the only way.
And then they began to
transcribe the contents.
And they were
astounded, when they're
reading, about enormous
amounts of gold and silver,
sacred vessels from the temple
and where they're located--
in the cistern and so on.
>>NOORY: Maybe somebody
does have them now, Ken.
>>HANSON: The archaeologists
dropped everything and ran out
into the desert with metal
detectors-- I kid you
not-- looking for this.
One scholar in particular named
John Allegro wrote a whole book
about it, trying to find it.
This would be the
most incredible--
>>NOORY: And they
were not successful?
>>HANSON: To date, not a
trace of the treasury--
>>NOORY: We don't think.
>>HANSON: --has
ever come to light.
Well, unless someone else
found it at some point--
>>NOORY: And kept it quite.
>>HANSON: --in history.
But how on Earth would you
keep something like that quiet,
even if they tried
to keep it quiet?
I'll give you an example.
The Romans had a
great sea battle
that took place between
Octavian and the Mark Antony.
Cleopatra, of
course, was involved.
And Octavian won.
Well the, treasure of
Cleopatra-- it was enormous--
was confiscated in
that sea battle.
It was brought back to Rome.
And nobody could
keep that quiet.
It actually caused a spike in
inflation in the city of Rome.
You don't keep things
like that quiet.
So I cannot imagine anyone
finding this in antiquity.
Some have argued maybe
it was all just a hoax,
a fabrication of some kind.
But why go to the trouble
of inscribing something
like on sheets--
>>NOORY: And then folding it up.
>>HANSON: Exactly.
There are still, there
are ongoing attempts,
even as we speak, to
locate the treasure.
>>NOORY: More of these
and the treasure.
>>HANSON: One friend
of mine thinks they
even the Ark of the Covenant
might be among the items.
>>NOORY: Oh, what a
discovery that would be.
>>HANSON: Wouldn't
that be a discovery?
>>NOORY: Now, the Dead
Sea Scrolls specifically,
do they talk about the
life of Jesus to come?
>>HANSON: Not specifically.
Again, people have tried to
link him with the scrolls.
Maybe he was an Essene.
Maybe he lived with them
when he was growing up
in part of the silent
years of his life.
I think that Jesus
actually refers
to this sect in his own
teaching in the Gospels.
But unlike John the Baptist--
this is my take, mind you.
Everything's
debated-- who I think
was perhaps a member of the
sect, Jesus I don't think
liked the sect.
Why?
Because whereas
John the Baptist was
fixated on this horrible
image of future catastrophe,
Jesus-- even from the Gospels,
what is he accused of being?
A winebibber,
gluttonous man, friend
of publicans and sinners.
This sect lived a very
exclusivistic life
out in the middle of
nowhere in the desert.
>>NOORY: Almost like monks.
>>HANSON: Well, actually,
some have likened them
to Jewish ancient monks, if
you could imagine such a thing,
which is really bizarre.
But that has been one possible
parallel into what they were.
But Jesus liked to
be among the folks.
And when he quotes the Dead
Sea Scrolls-- and he does--
it seems to be in the negative,
as if don't seclude yourself
from the world.
Jesus says make friends of
the mammon of unrighteousness.
That's a New Testament quote.
So let's be out there
among the people.
>>NOORY: Are the scrolls
predictors of what could be?
Or are they merely stories
of what was happening?
>>HANSON: Well, in
the academic world,
it's a shame, because all
we're really allowed to do
is look at this stuff as
literature, literary analysis.
>>NOORY: Made up by somebody?
>>HANSON: Yes.
I'm an academic, and
I engage in this, too.
I write my articles along
with everybody else.
But it's a shame because
as academics, we're
really not allowed to delve
into what the writers themselves
might have experienced.
>>NOORY: What did they mean?
>>HANSON: What were
they are experiencing?
>>NOORY: This wasn't
a novel, for example.
>>HANSON: I don't think it was.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>HANSON: The
scholar I mentioned,
John Allegro, who actually
did his own search
for the treasure of
the Copper Scroll,
began to get into
this as a scholar.
And he questioned,
raised the possibility
that the members of this
sect might, in fact, have
been consuming certain
types of natural vegetation,
specifically mushrooms--
>>NOORY: Ah, the magic mushroom.
>>HANSON: --in the area.
>>NOORY: Right?
>>HANSON: Well, bingo.
That were brought into the
Middle East in antiquity
and that actually help to
promote certain psychic, even
hallucinogenic, experiences.
And John Allegro really
began to probe into this.
And immediately,
he lost credibility
in the academic world.
I think it's a shame
because we need to ask--
>>NOORY: He may
have been right on.
>>HANSON: Well, he
might have been.
When you put yourself in
another state of consciousness,
you open yourself to another
level, another world,
another dimension,
and, the way I see it,
as cyclical prophecies.
Prophecies never have
a single fulfillment.
They are multiple.
And even Jesus, when he
talks about the end--
and he does
occasionally reference
the end of all
things-- he invariably
links the end of days with what
we have suffered in the past.
Jesus talks about the
abomination of desolation
standing in the holy place.
People don't realize
there had already
been an abomination
of desolation
two centuries
before, a guy named
Antiochus Epiphanes came
and defiled the temple
and proclaimed
himself to be God.
So there are cyclical
fulfillments.
And the problem with us moderns
is that we want everything
to have one single answer.
This is exactly what it means,
and it must mean nothing else.
When instead, we
should be trying
to get into the
mind of the writers
and look for patterns
and archetypes,
recognizing, as
Terence McKenna used
to say-- the famed philosopher.
They called him psychonaut.
He says that these are
experiences that cannot be
caught in a rational net.
And every time we try
to, it escapes us.
But what we can do
is to see points
in history where this
apocalyptic scenario has indeed
fulfilled.
And I don't think it's a
stretch to say we might be
on another cycle of apocalypse.
>>NOORY: Now, the
Dead Sea War Scroll
has a incredible likeness
to the Book of Revelation.
>>HANSON: Yes, it does.
>>NOORY: Let's take a look.
>>The scrolls are apocalyptic,
militant, and aggressive.
Interpreters of
the scrolls suggest
that a belief in a
coming apocalypse
may have inspired the Essenes
to create the War Scroll, which
they believed to be an ancient
blueprint on the art of war.
But could it also be
interpreted as a prophecy
of a future Armageddon.
Evidence may lie in the War
Scroll's text, which lays out
a framework for a violent
confrontation between two
opposing forces.
The opening lines
of the text read--
>>The first attack
of the sons of light
shall be undertaken against the
forces of the sons of darkness.
>>NOORY: So Ken, what
the heck does that mean?
>>HANSON: Think Star Wars.
It's a beautiful comparison.
The force, the dark side.
The Dead Sea sect,
whoever they were,
were consumed by
the idea of dualism,
that there are cosmic forces
unleashed in the universe doing
battle with one another.
And we can tap into
one or the other.
Indeed, the world itself may be
consumed by forces of darkness.
Three of these
seven battles will
be won by the so-called sons
of darkness, whoever they are.
Three more battles
will be won by the sons
of light, which
presumably refers
to the Essenes themselves.
>>NOORY: Have these battles
occurred in some part
already, like World
War I, World War II?
>>HANSON: Some
interpret it that way.
And again, we have
to be careful not
to get too definite because
we try to pin something down.
Again, it can't be caught
in the net of the rational.
It escapes us.
But there have been
rabbis, for example,
and Orthodox rabbis down
through the ages, who--
not necessarily with reference
to the War Scroll-- nonetheless
have said we believe that
this is the final apocalypse.
Some have pointed to the
mystical book, the Zohar,
which is the heart
of Jewish Kabbalah,
that talks about a final
period of the 70 years
in which things will get
worse and worse and worse,
and then a really
horrific period.
>>NOORY: Hmm, sounds like now.
>>HANSON: Well, it sure does.
Of 45-- of, well,
first nine months,
almost like birth pangs
of the Messianic Age.
And then the last 45 days
will be the absolute worst.
There were Orthodox rabbis
who said during the Holocaust,
this is it.
We are experiencing
this right now.
This is the 70 years spoken of.
Only trouble is, we are
well beyond 70 years now
past the Holocaust.
And that's why we have
to be careful not to try
to make things too definite.
These are patterns.
These are archetypes.
I think that the Holocaust
was an event in human history
unlike any other.
And if we can accept
the notion of warnings
from some other
dimension-- we have
to get a little bit
beyond our own psyche
here, beyond our
own intellectualism
and our scholarliness and
try to connect with something
beyond ourselves-- who can
doubt that this was not
some kind of apocalyptic
scenario in the Holocaust?
>>NOORY: It is
frightening, though, Ken.
>>HANSON: And then, when
we imagine another round.
We're well beyond the 70 years.
But we're looking at
another round as we speak.
And it all relates back
to the Middle East,
back to the city
of Jerusalem, back
to the Temple Mount, which is
the bullseye of history today.
And the warnings are out there.
And we better not be so academic
that we can't heed them.
>>NOORY: Let's take a look
at some of the prophecies
of the Dead War Scrolls.
>>According to some
scholars, the War Scroll
suggests that so-called
darkness, the evil enemy
of all good people, is without
morals and guided by greed.
In the War Scroll, the sons of
darkness's immoral and greedy
leader has a name-- Belial.
>>Cursed is Belial for
his contentious purpose
and accursed for his
reprehensible rule.
And cursed are all
the spirits of his lot
for their wicked purpose.
>>NOORY: Ken, what
we don't know is
whether that was meant for that
time period or the future time
period, where we are now.
>>HANSON: They were
convinced that it was
meant for their time period.
And so were many of the
writers of the New Testament.
They were convinced the
second coming was exactly
in that time period, for them.
But if we understand
what I'm talking about,
archetypes, they weren't
wrong in thinking
that it was for them.
This revolt was right
around the corner.
How uncanny is it that
they imagined this kind
of apocalypse in their own day?
As far as the Judeo-Christian
community is concerned,
they expected it, too.
The Book of Revelation
that we talked about
has some haunting references to
the great revolt against Rome.
Modern readers don't
catch the references
because we don't
know our history.
>>NOORY: Not at all.
>>HANSON: But I'm convinced
the whole Book of Revelation--
almost all of it-- is
about what happened
in that great revolt as warnings
to get out while we can.
And there is an ancient
Christian tradition
that, in fact, the
early Judeo-Christians
of the city of Jerusalem
heeded those warnings.
And they left right
before the Romans arrived.
They went east across the
Jordan River, which actually
was in low ebb at the moment.
And they able to get across
before the flood came
and settled in a Jordanian
locale today we called Pella.
It's an ancient site.
It's a very ancient tradition.
But they had all
of this in mind.
>>NOORY: Ken, what
if these were just
great stories
written by people who
just wanted to scare others?
I mean, I envision they
wrote the Dead Sea Scrolls,
and then they read them to
the population at the time,
almost like the
story of the night.
Is that possible?
>>HANSON: They
circulated, definitely,
among the people of
Jerusalem in that day.
There are certain aspects
of that revolt that
defy explanation unless they
really believed that it was
part of some supernatural plan.
The final seventh
battle was to be
won by the almighty, who will
descend from on high with--
>>NOORY: The apocalypse.
>>HANSON: --a host
of angelic beings.
Call them interdimensional
beings, if you will.
Angels, whatever, who will
come down and win it on behalf
of the sons of light of.
>>NOORY: Amazing.
>>HANSON: Of course, it
didn't pan out that way.
>>NOORY: Yet.
>>HANSON: Yet.
But today, Israel feels more
surrounded by hostile nations,
hostile forces, then ever.
But the tools of writing these
parchments have come down to us
generation to generation from
2,000-year-old parchments.
The same type of techniques were
used to write the Hebrew Bible.
And if I could just--
>>NOORY: And you can read
ancient Hebrew, can't you?
>>HANSON: Yes, I lived--
>>NOORY: Could you
read a little bit?
>>HANSON: Sure, sure.
I've lived in Israel.
And by the way, modern Hebrew
that we speak in Israel today,
is virtually unchanged
from ancient Hebrew.
The only thing is, I need to
put on my Indiana Jones hat
here out of Jewish
tradition because whenever
we read a text, you
put on your yarmulke
or you just cover your head.
So I'll have my Indie hat here.
>>NOORY: Should I hold that
up for you, or you're good?
>>HANSON: Sure.
You can help hold it
up, being careful not
to touch any of the letters.
Just that one end of it.
And this happens to be
a scroll fragment from--
>>NOORY: How old is this?
>>HANSON: This is
about 300 years old.
>>NOORY: So this is a
replica of an original?
>>HANSON: It's a copy of a
copy of a copy of a copy, made
in the Ukraine.
>>NOORY: By hand?
>>HANSON: Yeah.
And we can think of this, which
is a replica of a Dead Sea
Scroll, as the great, great,
great, great, great grandfather
of this.
>>NOORY: What's
the material here?
>>HANSON: The
material is vellum.
It's the skin of
any kosher animal.
It can be cow, deer.
As long as it's a kosher animal.
>>NOORY: Kosher is a
blessed animal, right?
>>HANSON: That does not-- right,
is not a scavenger animal,
for example, that chews the cud.
>>NOORY: OK.
So just read us a
little paragraph,
something significant here.
>>HANSON: So this is from the
Book of Deuteronomy, right?
And it survived the
Holocaust, I should add.
This happens to contain
the first three of the Ten
Commandments.
It says-- [SPEAKING HEBREW]
I am the Lord, your
God, who brought you out
of the land of Egypt, out
of the house of bondage.
>>NOORY: But how
would they know--
if this was one of the
Ten Commandments, how
would they know to
inscript this here?
>>HANSON: This is part
of the entire text
of the Book of Deuteronomy.
So the entire
scroll would consist
of the five books of Moses,
Genesis through Deuteronomy,
written by a single hand.
It takes about three years to
inscribe the whole narrative.
And the narrative is ongoing
until it just happens
to come here, to this part.
And then it goes out and
says-- [SPEAKING HEBREW]
You shall not have any other
gods before you or, literally,
before my face.
>>NOORY: That's part of
the Ten Commandments.
>>HANSON: And there's
one more passage, really,
that is very prominent
and powerful, also
from the Book of Deuteronomy.
This is another fragment.
And it's right in the middle.
This is one of the only
messianic prophecies
in all of the Hebrew Bible,
in all of the books of Moses
certainly.
And it starts right here, again
from the Book of Deuteronomy.
It says--
[SPEAKING HEBREW]
For the Lord your God
shall bring forth to you
a prophet from among you,
from among your brethren.
This is a messianic reference.
And then it says a
single word-- [HEBREW].
Moses is speaking, a prophet
like me, like Moses, a messiah
figure.
[HEBREW]
The Lord shall raise up for you.
Then it says [HEBREW].
Unto him shall you
listen or hearken.
Well, I can tell you in the
period of the Dead Sea Scrolls,
there was a virtual
messianic mania.
They were waiting for
someone, or, quite possibly,
for two messiahs, who
would come up like Moses
and lead the people
in redemption.
>>NOORY: Ken, these were
eyewitnesses, these people.
>>HANSON: Well, sure.
>>NOORY: They saw
incredible things.
>>HANSON: They saw
And the tradition
preserved, almost verbatim,
from Dead Sea Scrolls, almost
word for word identical to what
has come down in
subsequent parchments.
>>NOORY: Is there a
message there for us,
for us today to take heed?
>>HANSON: Of course.
Of course.
I mean, we need to take heed to
what the prophets have always
been trying to tell us.
And that means to step
beyond our own rationalism
for just a few minutes.
Again, it's difficult
for me as a scholar
to say this because
all we deal with
are just texts and
textual analysis.
But when we're talking about
a Messianic Age, a messiah who
will rise, actually there
are two traditions in Judaism
about the Messiah.
Either he will come
as a conquering hero
or he will come, as Zechariah
the prophet tells us,
on an ass.
And it's up to us
and our conduct
to decide which
way he will come.
>>NOORY: Do they talk
about the Antichrist
in any of these writings?
>>HANSON: More so when we
get to the Dead Sea Scrolls.
We just saw a clip about
[HEBREW] or Belial,
or "Beel-ee-al," as
he was pronounced--
>>NOORY: Sounds like
the devil, doesn't it?
>>HANSON: It sure does.
It sure does.
A force of great malevolence.
The term itself means "without
a yoke." [HEBREW] is a yoke.
Without a yoke, like an
animal who has no yoke.
In other words, when
people are unrestrained,
when they've cast away the
admonitions of the Torah,
the books of Moses,
the Pentateuch,
the ideas that keep
us moral, that we
are unrestrained and
can produce no end
of evil-- the evil inclination,
as Judaism calls it.
>>NOORY: Well, what's
amazing, too, Ken,
is you've talked about
Jerusalem in the past.
And Jerusalem in the
future and Jerusalem
in our present state, that is
a focal point for all of this.
Let's take a look at it today.
>>Jerusalem is my
home, where I was born.
It's the place where
we live and learn.
We can't do without it.
We draw affection from it.
It's like a mother to us.
>>I hate to say this,
but everybody just
seemed suspicious to me.
And it's hard to live in
a world where you always
have to look over your shoulder
to make sure that you're OK.
>>NOORY: And Ken, to tie
in with what we just saw,
Orina from Safed,
Israel writes, why
can't people of different
faiths get along?
Why can't Christians
be Christians,
Jews be Jews,
Muslims be Muslims.
Why so much fighting?
>>HANSON: Wouldn't it be
nice, especially among people
who are monotheists, who
believe in a single God.
And as a professor, we
study this at length.
There is, sadly, one downside of
monotheism all through history.
And that, unfortunately, has
been intolerance of others.
Because if we have only
one god and if we believe
that our way is the right
way and the only way,
then your way must be wrong.
Judaism has tried
to cope with this,
in fact, because at some
point in its history,
it actually
declared, we will not
attempt to convert
anybody anymore.
In fact, we're
against conversion.
If somebody wants to convert
to Judaism, our advice is, no,
you don't.
No, you don't.
Because it seems that the
great sages and rabbis realized
that if you're trying to
say, ours is the only way,
it can unleash a can of worms
you don't want to get into.
But sadly, what have we
seen also in Christianity,
in portions of Islam today?
There was a Reformation
in Christianity--
I think thankfully--
that brought
about new attitudes instead of
the Inquisition and openness.
The Pope today and so
on are extending a hand
to people of other faiths.
Islam-- there are many Muslims
in the world-- Dr. Zuhdi
Jasser, I like to
mention his name, who
is an American Muslim, a
leader who has wonderful things
to say as a faithful,
observant Muslim.
And yet, there are forces at
work in the Islamic world,
the--
>>NOORY: Look around you.
>>HANSON: Exactly.
And Sisi, el-Sisi of
Egypt has bravely stood up
and said, what we
need in Islam is
a reformation like
there has been
in other monotheistic faiths.
And I think just studying things
like the Dead Sea Scrolls--
yes, as scholars,
but as lay people,
as well-- we have
textual evidence.
We have a textual record
that we can sit around
the table as people of
different faiths and say, now,
here is what they wrote.
We have texts going
back thousands of years.
We're looking at them.
Let's sit down together
and reason it out.
What are they trying
to tell us today?
>>NOORY: We have
to do this, too.
>>HANSON: We have to do this.
>>NOORY: Because we'll destroy
each other if we don't.
Daryl from Pennsylvania
writes, do you
think John the Baptist
was the Dead Sea Scrolls'
Teacher of Righteousness?
>>NOORY: Ah.
As I mentioned, I think-- and
this is very controversial.
Scholars debate--
that John the Baptist
may have been a member of
this sect at some point.
Some have, in fact,
tried to equate
John the Baptist with the
famed Teacher of Righteousness.
And some others even
consider the Apostle Paul
to be the so-called Wicked
Priest, also mentioned,
or Jesus, maybe.
All different theories mentioned
in the Dead Sea Scrolls.
The problem however, is
once again with the dating.
Most of these scrolls,
especially the early ones,
when the Teacher of
Righteousness was around,
date from second century BC.
That's a little bit too
early for John the Baptist.
But hey, we have to
have an open mind.
We have to say, here's the text.
And if you could find a
better argument, I'm open.
>>NOORY: Daryl from West
Virginia-- this is interesting.
Did the Essene make contact
with alien life forms?
>>NOORY: Ah.
>>NOORY: Had to get that in.
>>HANSON: Had to
get that in, right.
And as an academic, this
is a touchy subject for me.
But I am increasingly
open to the idea
that the ancient
writers were having
some kind of experience
with some kind
of interdimensional beings.
It's very difficult to
ignore parallels between what
they experienced and even
what modern UFO contactees
experience.
>>NOORY: Yes.
Seems like the same thing.
>>HANSON: And oftentimes,
both among the ancients
and the moderns, what are the
messages that the aliens give?
Well, divided--
sometimes, they're
messages of a bright, brilliant
future, sort of a millenarian
hope for a future,
glorious Messianic Age.
Sometimes and
oftentimes, they're
messages of doom and cataclysm
right around the corner.
It exactly parallels antiquity.
Bottom line is we have
to be careful in saying
this means this.
This means that.
I think we have
to be open-minded,
just as John Allegro
was, in discussing
were they consuming some kind of
hallucinogens that opened them
to another dimension?
Terence McKenna thinks
that the UFO phenomenon
might be some kind of projection
from the consciousness
of the Earth itself, Gaia, the
Gaia consciousness, projecting
out of the Earth
itself, saying that we
see the same kind of
beings, whether they're
angels and demons or
sprites or fairies,
all through history, down to
the modern UFO phenomenon.
>>NOORY: Ken, is there a
warning in the Dead Sea Scrolls
that we need to take heed?
>>HANSON: Many warnings.
And when we look at the
world around us today,
I think there is a danger
of militant fundamentalism
that is rearing its head
and unleashing itself today.
We need to be more open.
We need to be more ecumenical.
We need to learn from one
another's faith traditions
because--
>>NOORY: But we're not learning.
>>HANSON: We're not.
And that's a huge lesson.
When we see sectarian
movements-- this is our land,
it's not yours-- when we
look at Jerusalem today,
and when we look at the
United Nations today,
which even as we speak
is preparing seriously,
with France at the lead, to
redraft the charter that formed
the state of Israel
to begin with--
>>NOORY: Yeah, they want to
partition that off, don't they?
>>HANSON: And partition it off.
And if I could come up with
a World War III scenario,
that would be it.
>>NOORY: That would be it.
>>HANSON: That would be it.
When this is partitioned
off-- and Israel
will be forced to
partition it-- this
is a prescription for disaster.
When we look at what's
going on in Syria right now,
my goodness-- the Golan
Heights for years and years
were supposed to be delivered
by the Israelis back to Syria.
Imagine if they had
actually done that.
And you'd have ISIS sitting
on the hills overlooking
the Sea of Galilee.
Right now, we have
the Palestinian.
>>NOORY: They needed that
buffer zone, didn't they?
>>HANSON: Yeah.
We have the
Palestinian Authority,
which, frankly,
is pretty corrupt,
that is ruling in the
West Bank territories now.
>>NOORY: And missiles
can now reach Israel
from almost any spot.
>>HANSON: Certainly.
And we're talking about Iran
with actual words in Hebrew
written on the missiles--
the state of Israel
will be wiped off the map.
In Hebrew they're writing
this on the missiles
that they're testing right now.
This is serious stuff.
>>NOORY: It's lunacy.
>>HANSON: It's lunacy.
And I think on two levels--
>>NOORY: It's Armageddon, Ken.
>>HANSON: Well, yeah.
Yeah.
>>NOORY: That's what it is.
>>HANSON: Sure.
>>NOORY: And is there
any true hope for us?
I mean, I'd love to leave
this program with something
tremendously
positive, that mankind
is going to fix this
problem and solve it.
But I can't say that.
Can you?
>>HANSON: It's hart to.
It's hard to.
But I do believe that there are
a couple of things we can do.
We can purpose ourselves
to be more metaphysical.
I think there is
something in the idea
of a metaphysical drive--
>>NOORY: So you
think there's hope.
>>HANSON: Yeah, I
do-- beyond ourselves
that we can plug into.
The ancients did.
Even those who practice
yoga or who learn meditation
are doing a little bit, I
think, to release something good
into the atmosphere.
But then on a practical
level, I think
we really can stand with
our allies in Israel
and let our governments
know that we need to stand
with Israel at this time.
>>NOORY: We cannot
afford to make a mistake.
>>HANSON: We certainly cannot.
So yeah, there is hope.
There's two ways we can go.
And that's what
the ancients said.
It's what modern
Orthodox rabbis say.
The Messiah will come either in
glory and wonder or on an ass.
>>NOORY: Well, let's hope
it's glory and wonder.
My last question to you
is if you had a microphone
to speak to the
planet, every person,
what would you tell them?
>>HANSON: Listen.
Listen to the vibe.
Open up.
Study.
You know, in Judaism, the
highest form of worship
is study.
There's nothing
better you can do.
And there's so much to study.
There's so much to learn.
I've given my life to it.
And it opens us.
It's all part of
the same process,
to open our minds to
the thinking of others,
to learn to be more broad,
to be more ecumenical,
and to do something good.
The rabbis were asked,
when will the Messiah come?
And they answer, when we make
the world ready to receive him.
It's on us.
>>NOORY: Ken, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
Appreciate it.
>>HANSON: A real
pleasure, George.
>>NOORY: We hold our
hand our own ability
of our own destiny, our future.
Let's hope that we
take the right path.
I'm George Noory.
This has been "Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]